Preamble
========

In the Qt community, participants from all over the world come together
to create Free Software. This is made possible by the support, hard
work, and enthusiasm of Qt contributors and users.

This document offers some guidance to ensure participants in the Qt
Project can cooperate effectively in a positive and inspiring
atmosphere. It explains how together we can strengthen and support each
other.

This Code of Conduct is shared by all contributors and users who engage
with the Qt project and its community services.


Overview
========

This Code of Conduct presents a summary of the shared values and “common
sense” thinking in our community. The basic social ingredients that hold
our project together include:

   - consideration
   - respect
   - collaboration
   - pragmatism
   - mutual support

Those who participate in the Qt project do so in various ways.
Most do so in at least one of these roles:

   - Contributors add value to the project through improving Qt software
     and its services.
   - Users add value to the project through their support as consumers
     of Qt software.

This Code of Conduct reflects the agreed standards of behavior for
members of the Qt community, in any forum, mailing list, wiki, web site,
IRC channel, public meeting or private correspondence within the context
of the Qt Project and its services. The community acts according to the
standards written down in this Code of Conduct and will defend these
standards for the benefit of the community. Leaders of any group, such
as moderators of mailing lists, IRC channels, forums, etc., should
exercise the right to suspend access to any person who persistently
breaks our shared Code of Conduct.


Be considerate
==============

Your actions and work will affect and be used by other people, while you
in turn will depend on the work and actions of others. Any decision you
make will impact other community members. We expect you to take those
consequences into account.

As a contributor, ensure that you give full credit for the work of
others and bear in mind how your contributions affect others. It is
also expected that you try to follow the development schedule and
guidelines.

As a user, remember that contributors work hard on their part of Qt and
take great pride in it. If you are frustrated, try to keep a level head.
Your problems are more likely to be resolved if you can give accurate
and well-mannered information to all concerned.


Be respectful
=============

In order for the Qt community to stay healthy, its members must feel
comfortable and accepted. Treating one another with respect is
absolutely necessary for this. In a disagreement, first assume that
people mean well.

We do not tolerate personal attacks, racism, sexism, or any other form
of discrimination. Disagreement is inevitable but respect for the views
of others will go a long way towards winning respect for your own view.
Assume others act with good intention. Show that you respect them, their
work, and their contributions. This makes our community members feel
comfortable and safe. In turn, this fosters motivation and productivity.

We expect members of our community to be respectful when dealing with
other contributors, users and communities. Remember that Qt is an
international project and that you may be unaware of important aspects
of other cultures.


Be collaborative
================

The Free Software Movement depends on collaboration: it helps limit
duplication of effort while improving the quality of the software
produced. In order to avoid misunderstanding, be clear and concise when
requesting or giving help. Remember, it is easy to misunderstand emails
(especially if they are not written in your native language). Ask for
clarifications if unsure how something is meant; remember the first rule
— assume that people mean well.

As a contributor, you should aim to collaborate with other community
members, as well as with other communities that are interested in or
depend on the work you do. Your work should be transparent, and
submitted to the community as early as possible. This helps the
community by providing time to review and collaborate with you on your
work, well in time before the next Qt release. If you wish to work on
something new in existing projects, keep those projects informed of your
ideas and progress.

It may not be possible to reach consensus on the implementation of an
idea, so don't feel obliged to achieve this before you begin. However,
always ensure that you keep the outside world informed of your work.
Publish it in a way that allows the community to test, discuss and
contribute to your efforts. Further guidelines for contributing to Qt
are given in [2].

As a user, your feedback is important, as is its form. Poorly thought
out comments can cause pain and demotivation of other community members.
In contrast, considerate discussion of problems can bring positive
results. An encouraging word can work wonders.


Be pragmatic
============

Qt is a pragmatic community. We value tangible results over having the
last word in a discussion. We uphold our values and we don't let
arguments about minor issues get in the way of achieving results. We are
open to suggestions and welcome solutions regardless of their origin.
When in doubt, support a solution which helps getting things done over
one which has theoretical merits, but isn't being worked on. Use the
tools and methods which help to get the job done.


Support others in the community
===============================

Our community is made strong by mutual respect, collaboration and
pragmatic, responsible behavior. Sometimes there are situations where
these standards have to be defended and other community members need
help.

If you witness others being attacked, think first about how you can
offer them personal support. If you feel that the situation is beyond
your ability to help individually, go privately to the victim and ask if
some form of official intervention is needed. Similarly you should
support anyone who appears to be in danger of burning out, either
through work-related stress or personal problems.

As a next step when problems arise, consider reminding those involved
of our Code of Conduct. Leaders are defined by their actions, and can
help set a good example by working to resolve issues in the spirit of
this Code of Conduct before they escalate.


Get support from others in the community
========================================

Disagreements, both political and technical, happen all the time. Our
community is no exception to the rule. The goal is not to avoid
disagreements or differing views but to resolve them constructively. You
should turn to the community to seek advice and to resolve disagreements
and, where possible, consult the team most directly involved.

Think deeply before turning a disagreement into a public dispute. If
necessary, request mediation to try and resolve differences in a less
emotional medium. If you do feel that you or your work is being
attacked, take your time to breathe through before writing heated
replies. Consider a 24-hour moratorium if emotional language is being
used — a cooling off period is sometimes all that is needed. When a
disagreement is about a technical matter, publishing a substantial
proposal, complete with details, can help to focus the discussion on
practical matters and defuse misunderstandings. This is particularly
true if the proposal can be tried and tested.


Colophon
========

This document is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution - Share
Alike 3.0 License.

The authors of this document would like to thank the KDE and Qt
communities and those who have worked to create such a dynamic
environment to share in and who offered their thoughts and wisdom in
the development of this document. We would also like to thank other
vibrant communities that have helped shape this document with their own
examples, such as the Ubuntu community and their Code of Conduct.


References
==========

.. [1] https://www.kde.org/code-of-conduct/
.. [2] https://wiki.qt.io/Qt_Contribution_Guidelines
